**Sprites** are used to visually represent **Actors**. They consist of a collection a animations. Every **Sprite** has a "default" animation and you can define aniy number of extra animations representing the **Actor** walking, talking or doing anything else you might need them to - for example, a **Sprite** for an **Actor** representing a door might have "opening" and "closing" animations.

Each animation can have up to four versions for each direction (up, down left or right) for the direction the **Actor** is facing while performing the animation. You do not need to define a version for every direction - the version for the **Sprite's** default direction is used as a fallback.

When creating **Orders** for your **Actor** you can choose which animation they will perform while carrying it out. By default, all "say" **Orders** will use the **Sprites's** "talk" animation (if they have one) and any "go to" or "move" **Orders** will use the "walk" animation  (again, if they have one), but you can specify different animations for the **Orders**. For example, you might want your character to use a "yell" animation to deliver a dramatic line of dialogue or a "tiptoe" animation when they are trying to move quietely.

**Actors** also have a "status" property. If you set the "status" to a value for which the **Actor's** **Sprite** has an animation, that animation will be used instead of the "default". For example, if your **Actor** represents a campfire, setting it's status to "burning" would make the sprite use its "burning" animation (if it has one) instead of "default" when the **Actor** is not carrying out an **Order**.